I took KH Academy's financial literacy
course for you so here's the cliffnotes
version to save you at least 2530 hours
this course took me weeks to get through
like here are my notes it is 109 pages
long it is the most comprehensive
personal finance financial literacy
course I have ever taken and probably
because it is an accumulation of the
past 10 15 years of knowledge it
literally covers the foundations of
everything but it is not enough for you
just to listen to me talk so I've also
included little ments throughout the
video as well since it's such a long
course so if you can answer all of these
questions you can consider yourself to
be financially literate by the end of
this video now without further Ado let's
get started let's first talk about the
structure of this course there are 16
units in total unit one is just an
introduction unit two is on budgeting
and saving how do you create a budget
how much you should be saving how to
save unit three is financial goals how
do you set financial goals what is a
smart goal and how does that relate to
your money personality and how to
calculate your net worth then we are
going into loans how do loans work how
does debt work what happens if you filed
for bankruptcy unit six is on insurance
unfortunately lots of things can go
wrong in life and there are lots of
types of insurances to try to deal with
that unit seven is on investment and
retirement how much do you need to
retire and how do you invest then we're
moving on to scams and frauds there are
many trickeries in life that you should
be aware of people trying to steal your
money then taxes no need to say more
unit 11 is employment how do you
calculate whether whether an employment
opportunity is worth it or not how do
you choose between different offers unit
12 is banking all the different types of
Banks and the different types of bank
accounts this also includes a crash
course on interest rates and inflation
Unit 13 is car buying apparently car
buying is also the place of one of the
most trickeries that people will do on
you to trap you into very bad situations
then there's houses when is it worth it
to rent versus buy how do and finally
unit 15 and Unit 16 is on teacher
resources and additional resources ready
all right let's go into budgeting first
off what is a budget a budget is a plan
that helps you manage your money it
shows you how much money you have how
much money you need to spend on things
and how much money you can save or use
for other goals having a budget can help
you make smart decisions with your money
and avoid problems like overspending
debt or running out of money in essence
you can think of a budget as a plan for
money that's going to be coming in and
what you're going to be doing with it
I'm going to put on screen now a very
simple budget sheet that Con Academy
provides this is a monthly budget and
people can have like super fancy
spreadsheets and things like that uh
again this is a very simple one but they
all work essentially the same you want
to keep track of your income in some
fashion whether that be in paychecks or
side incomes then you want to decide
what you're going to be doing with this
money a very popular rule that people
like to follow is the 50 30 20 rule
which means that you want to allocate
50% of the money you earn into needs
this will be like groceries rent
Transportation costs 30% into wants
things that are nice to have but not
necessary things like going going out to
eat watching movies and finally 20% into
savings this would include saving for an
emergency fund in case you have any
medical emergencies or personal
emergencies like getting laid off or if
you just want to help someone it also
includes saving monies for bigger
purchases like maybe you want to own a
house or a car or you could be saving
money for investment for retirement
here's an example of a budget worksheet
for example the money that you're
bringing in amounts through $3,000 also
make sure that when you're calculating
the amount of income you're looking at
after tax dollars since that's the
amount of money that you actually get to
spend the needs over here adds up to
$1,780 which is 59% of our income and
this is actually higher than our Target
goal of 50% of income the wants total to
$795 which is 27% of income and savings
totals to $425 which is 14.17% of income
even though our Target is at 20% so in
this scenario if we want to follow the
503020 rule it looks like that we need
to decrease our needs a little bit in
order to bump up our savings as a little
exercise if you look at this budget
sheet what do you think this person can
do in order to decrease the amount of
money they're spending on needs to boost
their savings write in the comments okay
so now let's think through this together
looking into this needs category um all
these things are definitely actually
necessary but there are some things that
you can potentially do in order to
decrease the cost um rent is going to be
something that you can consider
downsizing into a smaller apartment but
that's something that's probably a
little harder to change you might have
to wait until your lease is over now let
look at utilities cell phone and home
internet so you definitely need to do
these things but what you can actually
do is actually try calling them up and
just being like hey like I'm really
looking to stick into my budget right
now like this is outside of my budget
what can we do in order for me to
decrease the amount that I'm using on
the side of utilities they may have like
certain plans for you where they can
give you certain suggestions for this
and for things like cell phone and home
internet they may have better deals for
you cuz they would rather retain you as
a customer than you potentially leaving
to go to a competitors sometimes all you
have to do is ask car payments and
insurance probably harder to decrease as
well um but also for groceries you can
potentially decrease the groceries by
looking at different stores around you
seeing if you can buy things at
different stores and buying things when
there's discounts there's a concept
called per unit pricing that can be
really helpful when you're considering
what it is that you want to buy it's
basically telling you how much you're
paying per ounce per pound or per item
like say you're buying laundry detergent
pods how much are you paying per pod or
per cycle of laundry there are so many
different types of laundry detergents
available when you look at a grocery
store so if you're not like super picky
about it if you look at the per unit
pricing that can help you determine
which of these items is actually the
cheapest per usage it may not seem like
a big difference just a few cents
difference but if it's something that
you use as a staple it can actually add
up to hundreds of dollars of savings so
by implementing some of these decreases
in cost for your need section you can
take that money and put that that into
savings to achieve our 503020 rule this
rule is not a hard and fast Rule and you
can adjust it based upon your living
situation and things like that but it is
a really good place to get started and
for you to go through your bank account
and audit how much you're actually
spending on each of these categories in
relationship to your income after tax
income now let's talk specifically about
why it's so important to save money and
what you should be doing with your
savings saving money is very good for
three primary reasons the first one is
so that you can save up for an emergency
fund it's generally recommended that you
maintain 3 to 6 months of an emergency
fund 3 to 6 months meaning the amount of
money that you need in order to survive
that amount of time going back to that
previous example if we've managed to
balance our fund so that our needs is
$1,500 per month then at the very
minimum you should have
$4,500 saved and the reason you want to
do this is because life happens
happens you might get laid off you might
have a medical emergency somebody that
you're very close with your friend or
your family might have a medical
emergency there's a lot of that can
happen in life and you want to make sure
that you have the amount of money to
cover your basic necessities for at
least 3 to 6 months in order for you to
get yourself on your feed again that is
the first thing you should be saving for
and you should not be touching this
money until you really really need it
now after you save your emergency fund
you can think about the two other types
of savings the first one is for bigger
purchases like a car or maybe a house
and the second one for Investments and
saving longterm for retirement these
categories are not necessarily
completely separate either like for
example if you want to buy house that
can also be something that you consider
to be an investment that you're saving
for long term a pro tip is that you can
actually create a separate savings
account for each of the things that
you're saving for like if you want to
save for a laptop a car and a yacht you
know you really want a yacht um you can
actually create a separate savings
account in your bank account you can
usually do this for free with a savings
goal for each of these accounts and when
your paycheck comes in you can actually
automatically redirect that money um by
how much money it is that you're putting
into each of these different savings
accounts but speaking of savings
accounts and we'll actually talk more
about different types of bank accounts
later as well but it's useful to know
that there are different types of saving
accounts you should consider things like
the initial deposit requirements any
access restrictions how often it is that
you can take money out any overdraft
fees if you're not maintaining a certain
amount of money and also interest rates
interest rates in this context is kind
of like the bank giving a reward for you
trusting them in holding on to your
money so most savings accounts will give
you a certain amount of interest it's
usually not that much be like single
digits like 2 3% so if you put in $100
and interest rate is 3% then they will
actually give you $3 in interest now you
have $13 without having to do anything
which is pretty magical we're not going
to talk about inflation
yet now let's talk about credit since
this course is based on the US system
there might be like a different scoring
system um in the country that you're in
but at least in the US and Canada credit
scores are between 300 and 850 if you're
in the high 700s to the 800 range that's
considered a really good score and you
can get approval for most loans that you
need and lower interest rates if you're
between 600 and 700 that's considered
decent it's not great but it's also not
bad so you may be paying a little bit
higher interest rates and if you're
below 600 that's considered pretty bad
and you might just straight out be not
approved for loans uh or you just need
to pay a really high interest rate so
what exactly is a credit score a credit
score is a measure of How likely you are
to pay for things on time this will
include how long you've had credit
accounts for like credit cards or
student loans how much money you owe
whether you make your payments on time
if you've ever filed for bankruptcy
there are all different factors that go
into calculating the score so it's
actually like quite complex how it is
that they actually do it but overall
it's supposed to represent how
trustworthy you are to lend money to so
say you might have a bad credit score
what can you do in order to improve your
credit score luckily there are ways and
I'll go through them in a descending
order of importance so the first thing
is that you need to pay your bills on
time your payment history represents 35%
of your credit score so if you have any
loans or credit card debts you should be
paying that on time the second is credit
utilization so this is something that I
do know but when I first learned about
it I was actually really surprised by
this accounts for 30% of your credit
score and it means the fraction of your
credit usage for example if you have a
credit card limit of $10,000 it's
actually best to spend as little of it
as possible like say if you spend like
$100 only then you have a credit
utilization of 1% which is really good
that is not to say that you shouldn't
have credit cards though you still want
credit cards because you want to show a
history of having credit but you want to
show a history of not using that much of
it I know it's sort of weird but that's
how they calculate it and speaking of
credit history that accounts for 15% of
your credit score the longer the history
of data they have on you of good you
know money habits um then the more
confidence people would have on your
ability of paying back the loans that
you take and finally the two last
categories account for about 10% each
the first one is the type of credit it's
generally good to have a mix of
different types of credit like between
credit cards maybe like a mortgage loans
whatever like I don't think you should
go and like get more debt and like do
that intentionally um but you know
that's just if you do it kind of looks
better for you although it's only like
10% and the last one is new cards so
there's this concept called an inquiry
and there's like hard inquiry and soft
inquiry basically like every time that
you open up a new credit card it would
be a hard inquiry so the lender would be
um doing a hard inquiry to check your
credit report and every time that they
do that kind of inquiry it actually
hurts your credit score on the other
hand you have something called a soft
inquiry this would be something just
like checking your credit score or if
you're trying to like you know rent a
house they might do like a soft inquiry
on your credit score this kind of
checking does not impact your credit
score and is okay so generally speaking
try not to get like several different
new credit cards all at the same time
try to like space it out a little bit
now another thing that is interesting
about credit scores is what doesn't
count towards your credit CR score um
and the big one that is very interesting
is that income has nothing to do with
your credit score it doesn't matter how
much money that you make it's only about
your ability of handling the money that
you have in relation to making payments
for things not the size of the payments
that you're making things like
employment has nothing to do with it as
well although if you have an employment
you'll probably be more likely to
actually be able to pay back your
payments so don't be an ostrich if you
don't already know your credit score go
check it out using something like Credit
Karma or your bank or whatever and if
you have a pretty bad credit score then
make a plan and follow these steps to
improve it there's a lot of free
resources out there like YouTube videos
that can teach you how to build up your
credit and just generally speaking this
course is about foundational things so
if you want to like dive deeper into any
of this it's best to actually look at
Specialized courses where like videos
and resources about these topics now
before I move on to the next unit I want
to make a note about credit cards credit
cards are one of those things that are
such a double-edged sword depending on
how you use it on one hand um it's
actually good to have a credit card
because it can help you build credit and
it's also super conven vent plus a lot
of them come with really good rewards
and cash backs especially in the US I've
lived in different places and all of
them usually have some sort of rewards
for your credit cards but in the US some
of them are like insane some people use
credit card points to have like entire
vacations paid for but if you are not
responsible with your money and you
cannot use your credit card responsibly
what could potentially happen is a
massive amount of credit card
debt because it's so easy to use and you
just swipe it and it's on credit like
you don't even have to have money in
your bank account it's so easy to spend
that money a lot of people end up
overspending it realizing like I
don't actually have that money to pay
back my credit card and that's when you
realize that crazy interest rate starts
kicking in like let's look at this
credit card for example this is called a
Schumer's box where by law um people who
are trying to get you to sign up for a
credit card they have to show this to
you when things are going good and
you're making back your payments on time
every single month you know everything
is great you're getting your cash back
your rewards all these good things but
when you start missing payments and
start accumulating debt this is one the
scary thing like annual percentage rate
APR starts kicking in so say if you have
like $100 and your APR is like 20 and
you're potentially paying up to
28.99% of the debt that you owe just on
interest alone so if you already can't
pay back your initial amount of money
and you have so much interest building
up on that as well and it's very quickly
that you're digging yourself a very deep
hole of credit card debt unfortunately I
actually know quite a few people who
have found themselves in that situation
extremely quickly other things on this
shumer box include like apri for
transfers getting cash advances that's
even worse just just don't do it if
you're taking cash that you already
don't have and getting from a credit
card just bad idea don't do it yeah
there's like penalties it also shows a
grace period so this is the amount of
time that you have in this case 28 days
before you need to start paying back um
the amount that you have on your credit
card so that's why you should always be
paying back the full amount when you
have a credit card so you don't have to
pay any of these interest rates while
also being able to benefit from building
out your credit and also all of the
perks and like rewards and things like
that this course also goes through a lot
of different types of credit cards and
how it is that you can compare credit
cards so if this is something that
you're interested in I actually
recommend that you check out this unit
from the course by the way all Con
Academy courses are free which is
amazing long story short credit cards
are great if you're responsible and you
can actually pay things back if you
don't just don't do it or look into
specific special credit cards for people
who are trying to build up their
credit now let's do a money personality
quiz this is going to be really helpful
for determining your financial goals I'm
going to put on screen now and please
pause the screen if you want to do this
quiz and answer each of these five
questions A B C or D so for each of
these questions give yourself the
following points for each answer so when
you answer a to something give yourself
one point if you answer B give yourself
Four Points C give yourself five points
and D give yourself two points now if
your range is between five to n points
then your personality is a spender type
this means that you're someone who
enjoys spending money you're kind of
like a Livin a moment kind of person may
have trouble saving and planning for the
future future and you might struggle
with debt or impulse buying if you have
between 10 to 14 points then you're
called a balancer this means that you're
pretty good at managing your money and
making good decisions but you're also
prone to indecision and stress so you
may be missing out some good
opportunities because you're being very
cautious if you have between 15 and 19
points you're considered a sa this means
you're excellent at saving money and
reaching your financial goals but it
also means that you may be too Frugal
and too rigid you may be neglecting some
of your own wants and needs just in
order to save save more and you may have
trouble sharing your money with other
people and finally if you're from 20 to
25 points you're considered an investor
you are Savvy and you're strategic with
your money and you really seek to grow
your wealth and to have a positive
impact generally you're very adventurous
and you're willing to take risk but
sometimes you may be a little too
optimistic and ignore some of your basic
needs let me know in the comments what
you got so for me I got 12 points which
makes me a balancer my strengths are
that I maintain a balance between saving
spending and investing so it says the
characteristics are you're good at
managing your money and making smart
decisions but you may also be prone to
stress or indecision you may miss out on
some opportunities or experiences
because of your cautiousness that
actually fits me really really well I
feel like I got so scared of certain
like scams that people T me about and
warn me about to the point where I just
kind of like assume everything might be
a scam so I'm definitely like a pretty
overly cautious kind of person and
definitely I get like stressed where
indecisive so I just end up like not
probably taking advantage of many
opportunities that I have and I also put
on screen now the tips for the different
money personalities for me I already
know my strength is being able to
balance between these things and
challenges is to cons it's hard to stay
consistently in the middle so specific
tips would include traing yourself
occasionally to enjoy your money staying
open to new money making opportunities
seeking advice but trusting your
instincts and celebrating your financial
successes so obviously this is not like
all encompassing but I think it's useful
to take some of these tips and start
incorporating them into your financial
goals which is what we're going to talk
about next the course recommends that
you use smart goals I might have heard
of that acronym before it stands for
specific measurable achievable realistic
and time Bound for example a not smart
goal is I want to be rich like what does
that even mean right on the other hand a
smart goal would be something like by
the time I am 30 years old I want to put
down a down payment for $100,000 to buy
a house it's specific because you want
to buy a house it's measurable because
it's $100,000 it's achievable in the
sense that it is not impossible to do
and it's realistic well it could be
realistic depending on your life
situation but assuming that you have a
job that can allow you to do that and
you have like you know 5 years until
you're 30 um it's something that you can
reasonably do and it's time bound
because it's by the time that you're 30
years old when you set these kind of
goals you can actually start making
plans to achieve them so when we're
setting these financial goals we also
want to think about them in terms of
short-term goals medium-term goals and
long-term goals short-term goals are
goals that are going to be less than a
year long this would include things like
saving up for an emergency fund buying a
new phone buying a new laptop or paying
off a small debt a smart short-term goal
would be something like I want to save
up $2,000 to buy myself a new laptop in
3 months the general strategy for
short-term goals is simply to take that
out of your income as part of your
budget and then save that into a bank
account or like a piggy bank or money
jar if you prefer a medium-term goal is
something that is between a year to 5
years long this would incl include
things like buying a car saving up for
college buying a house a smart
medium-term goal could be like the
example we used before like I want to
have $100,000 down payment to be able to
buy a house by the time I turn 30 for
example in terms of strategy in addition
to just having that as part of your
budget and you're saving that money you
might also want to consider some
low-risk Investments since that money is
probably going to be locked up for at
least like a year or to 5 years this
could be something just like a high
yield savings account or maybe something
with a fixed term interest rate we'll
talk more about investment vehicle
things later in a video and finally nonm
girls goals that will probably take you
5 years and more to achieve this will
include things like saving for
retirement leaving a legacy depending on
your age and financial situation buying
a house could maybe be more of a
long-term goal as well a smart long-term
goal could be something like I want to
be semi-retired in 10 years so I want to
have saved up around $5 million in the
next 10 years so that I can work
part-time and be able to travel wherever
I want uh this is when you should also
really consider investing that money to
grow your wealth in things like stocks
and bonds most countries also have
specific retirement accounts that can
give you tax benefits as well which we
will also talk about later in the video
now after you create your smart goals
then you want to come up with a
financial plan to achieve them and there
are four different components for a
financial plan the first one is a budget
and this is there's a lot of
spreadsheets out there there's a lot of
different apps you can use in order to
determine how much money is coming in
and what's the plan to achieving your
financial goals then you need a savings
plan which is specific to what it is
that you're saving for how much money
you want to be saving for all of your
different goals this will help you
prioritize your goals allocate your
income and build up your savings third
is a debt repayment plan if you have
debt this is something that is really
important you want to be looking at all
of the debt that you currently have and
come up with a plan in order to repay
these and you should absolutely be
prioritizing this there are a lot of
really great free resources out there
that can help you come up with a debt
repayment plan so look it up and fourth
is an investment plan this is a plan for
how much money you want to be investing
from your savings remember your savings
is divided into subcategories about your
different financial goals right but you
want to specifically also have a plan
for your investment side of things this
is where you determine where it is that
you want to be investing your money in
order to achieve longer term goals like
retirement again there are a lot of
really great resources out there that
can help you come up with an investment
plan as well just ask chpt or look it up
on Google even though the course doesn't
go into a lot of detail about each of
these plans I think it is really helpful
to know this framework that you need to
realize that you need to set financial
goals um how to set financial goals and
these are the components that you need
in order to achieve your financial goals
okay so final part of this unit is
calculating your net worth probably
heard about this term a lot people's net
worths so net worth is very simply just
assets minus liabilities for example for
assets you could have a $500,000 house a
$50,000 car it's a really expensive car
um jewelry that's worth like $5,000 and
your total amount of assets is
$555,000 now on your liabilities you
could have a $400,000 mortgage on your
$500,000 house $40,000 in car loans
which is also a lot of loans $115,000 of
credit card debt and $50,000 of student
loans and that works out to be
$55,000 so assets minus liabilities
$555,000 minus
$55,000 that means your net worth is
$50,000 this may not seem like a lot but
believe it or not a lot of people
actually have negative net worth which
honestly is okay when you're younger uh
because you know you're going to school
and and accumulating debt from that
probably but as you get older you do
want that number to start becoming
positive so if you don't know your net
worth should calculate that all right so
let's now do our first little assessment
I will put on screen now these questions
feel free to answer them in your head
but even better actually write it down
and put it in the comments this will
help you retain this information now
let's move on to loans and debt when I
didn't really know that much about loans
whenever I hear that word I kind of have
like this adverse reaction to it and I
think the reason is because growing up I
heard so many stories of people taking
out loans and then just you know having
like a lot of issues and going bankrupt
and things in life so it's almost like I
just view the idea of loans and debt as
something that's just like bad like I
should stay away from that but after a
little bit of unlearning I realized that
the idea of loans and debt is not
actually a bad thing it's really just
about how you use it unfortunately the
stories that we hear is often of people
who use it poorly or you may have a
completely different reaction to when
you hear the word loan so whatever it is
um I think it is really helpful to
really understand how loans work so I'm
going to spend a little bit more time on
this section but let's first Define loan
so when we say that we're taking out a
loan we're using credit what we mean is
that we're borrowing money from somebody
else that could be like a friend family
or third party institutions like a bank
the agreement is that they lend you the
money and you will pay that back to them
in the future probably with some money
added on top as well in the form of
Interest or fees as the cost of
borrowing that money interest is
generally a percentage that is based
upon how much money that you're
borrowing which you're going to be
paying back through a period of time for
example you borrow $100 and you're
paying back $110 in one year that means
the interest rate is 10% fees are
another cost and there could be like a
variety of different kinds of fees
associated with borrowing that money
loans can be extremely useful if you
need to purchase something which you
don't have the money or you don't
necessarily want to spend the money on
right now this could be things like
buying a house going to college
investing in education or in case God
forbid there's an emergency uh that you
need to do with but not all loans are
created equal there are different terms
and requirements and the biggest
difference between them is generally in
the interest rate some loans have higher
interest rates and some loans have lower
interest rates is if you think about it
from a lender's perspective they will
probably charge you a higher interest
rate for something that has more risk
towards them we'll go back to this and
talk about the different types of loans
in just a bit but first I want to talk
about how to get a loan so this course
is very us Centric so I'm going to try
to generalize these terminologies and
Concepts in a way that everybody body
can understand but if you want to have
like more specific terms if you are
based in the US I actually really
encourage you to go through this section
of the course which I will link below so
when you want to get a loan and you go
to a bank for example and you're like I
would like to have a loan please
generally they will ask you for a
variety of information to determine how
risky it is to loan something to you in
other words How likely are you to
actually pay back that money they will
consider things like your income level
your job history how long have you had a
job for do you tend to switch your jobs
a lot what's your credit score your debt
to income ratio which is how much debt
you have in relation to the income that
you're bringing in the higher the debt
to income ratio the more risky it is for
some types of loans they would also
consider something called a collateral
which is something of value in which if
you decide to like not pay back that
money for some reason the bank can take
back to repay that loan for example if
you can't repay your house loan then the
bank gets to take your house okay so
let's now go back to the type of loans
that are available the first type is
called an installment credit this is
when you borrow generally a pretty large
sum of money and you need to pay that
money back by installments usually on a
monthly basis for example if you buy a
car or you buy a house then you're
paying back a certain amount of fixed
money every single month the second type
is a revolving credit and the best
example of this is your credit card your
credit card has a limit in terms of how
much money you could borrow up to but
you can borrow different amounts and as
long as you pay back some of that money
you can keep borrowing up to that amount
for example if your credit card has a
limit of $1,000 you could buy something
for $50 and you still have $995 left
that you can borrow until you pay some
of it back as you can see a revolving
credit can get pretty risky and
dangerous pretty quickly one of the
worst possible loans you can get which
is a revolving credit loan is payday
loans you're basically taking out credit
on the payment that you haven't even
received yet and you can do this like
over and over again but I'm not just
saying that revolving credits are bad
there's really pros and cons for both
installment based and revolving credit
revolving credit even though it can be
risky and costly it is very convenient
and when you smartly like if you
actually pay back your credit cards on
time you take advantage of lots of
rewards and you can use it to improve
your credit scores over time installment
credit on the other hand is a lot less
risky and that's actually also why it
has a much lower interest rate in
comparison to revolving credit but it
can also be rigid and limiting if youve
ever heard someone say that they had to
refinance their mortgage um if because
their mortgage is in installments so
they have to like physically go and
change the way that they're financing it
and then go through this entire process
of doing that while potentially also
incurring fees along the way and if you
really need money fast you also can't
really use installment credit because it
takes such a long process to actually
get it revolving credit will be much
easier to do I've been using interest
rate a few times out the interest rate
when it comes to loans is generally
described as an APR annual percentage
rate it's the total interest and fees in
a year divided by an average balance
owed and you'll see this number
everywhere it is like a standardized way
for you to be able to compare between
different loans that you're taking and
just for reference here are some
different types of loans and their aprs
expressed as a range as you can see
something like payday loans is freaking
crazy at 300% to 800% and this is you
know of course based upon the United
States so long story short loans are not
necessarily A Bad Thing and debt is not
necessarily a bad thing either the
course explains that there really is a
concept of good debt versus bad debt a
good debt is taking out a loan as an
investment for the future this could be
things like starting a business
investing in a home considering that you
actually do the research properly these
are all things that are meant to
increase your quality of life and bring
you more wealth in the future and you
should be able to pay back that loan
easily bad debt is also unfortunately
definitely thing as well and these are
the horror stories that you generally
hear of like people taking out payday
loans personal lines of credit drowning
and credit card debt bad debt is
anything that is weakening your
financial stability when you spend money
that you don't have on something that
isn't actually going to bring you more
wealth in the future let me know in the
comments what's your relationship with
like loans and debt do you kind of have
like a negative connotation towards it
out of like fear um is it something that
you're just like oh whatever and then
you have like maybe issues with spending
and potentially are in debt because of
Reckless spending or do you feel like
you're able to use credit and loans and
debt responsibly I really want to know
where you stand okay so before I end
this unit I do want to touch on the fact
that if you do happen to have a lot of
debt it is something that you should
definitely be prioritizing over
everything else right now the course
briefly talks about two different
approaches called the high rate approach
and The Snowball Effect I'm not going to
go into too much detail about this right
now but I really recommend that you
check it out and then also just there's
a lot of free resources out there that
can help you come up with a debt
repayment plan now let's talk about
insurance so I actually didn't know that
much about insurance before taking this
course and my first initial reaction is
that wow I did not realize that so many
bad things could possibly happen and
there are so many different types of
insurances that could cover the so many
bad things that are happening but in all
honesty though I'm really glad that I
did this section because it's just not a
topic that I would naturally you know
look up by myself cuz I don't want to
think about bad things happening you
know like most people don't but the
truth is that bad things are happening
all the time even if you're just minding
your own business you could potentially
get laid off you could have a medical
issue occur you could have some issue
happen with any of your family and
friends God forbid you could die so it
is actually important to mitigate those
risk there are two approaches that you
can manage Financial Risk the first one
is just to avoid risk and the second is
to transfer risk to someone else in the
case of a car accident you can try to
avoid this risk by driving safely and
not texting and driving or drinking and
driving you can also save up some money
so you can your car relatively quickly
in case something happens and you
wouldn't have the risk of not having a
car to drive in addition to this you can
also transfer some of that risk to
somebody else by purchasing liability
insurance from an insurance company in
this way if you get into a car accident
and it's your fault you instead of
having to pay for damage that you've
done because you have insurance that
insurance will cover that amount so you
see the key to managing Financial Risk
involves both avoiding risk and
potentially transferring that risk to
someone else by purchasing insurance so
hopefully that makes sense in terms of
where Insurance fits in and why it can
be useful now the course itself goes
through a lot of different types of
insurances that you can have with the
most common ones being medical insurance
especially if you're in the US I learned
this the hard way when I broke my foot
and I did not have insurance property
insurance in case you own a property or
even if you're leasing a property car
insurance there's life insurance in case
you die I'm not going to go into too
much detail about all the different
types of insurances but definitely if
you're interested do some of your own
research but before I end this section I
do want to Define some of the key
terminologies that is used in the
Insurance world the key participants
include the insured which is the policy
holder it's you if you're buying it for
yourself it's somebody else if you're
buying it for somebody else the insurer
the company providing the coverage so
the insurance company the agent so
there's usually a third party that helps
you purchase that policy and the
underwriter the people who assess the
risk and set what the premiums are the
premium means the payment that is needed
to keep the coverage active so how much
money you have to be paying to have that
insurance sometimes there's deductibles
which is the amount that you need to pay
out of pocket before an insurance kicks
like say for example your deductible is
like $11,000 um in one year that means
that anything that happens within that
year you go to a doctor you do all these
things if it's up to $1,000 you need to
pay that out of pocket but the insurance
will kick in after you've spent $1,000
of your own money there's also something
called co-pay so sometimes when you
visit a specialist office you have to
pay a certain amount in addition to the
insurance paying the rest of the amount
so if your co-pay is like $20 to see a
dermatologist so you paid $20 and your
insurance will cover the rest of the
visit there's often also a policy limit
which is the maximum the insurer will
pay for the claim your home insurance
could have a policy limit of $400,000
when it comes to fire damage a claim is
a formal request for coverage so if
something happens you put in a claim for
coverage and finally the benefit is the
payment that insurer will pay to cover
whatever it is that the claim is it's
best to use insurance as a backup it's
not something that you should be like oh
it's cuz I have insurance I can just do
whatever I want now and it's definitely
not something that you should be
thinking like oh I can make money from
my insurance it's for reducing Financial
impact and the best time to think about
getting insurance is when you don't
actually need that insurance yet which
is always the little tricky part you
want to be getting your insurance before
you get sick before your house burns
down before you die let's talk about um
Investments and retirement now there are
two friends called Miguel and Jasmine
Miguel and Jasmine both started working
at widget cor at the same time and
during the onboarding they were asked to
sign a lot of different forms a lot of
them with health insurance forms because
they're from the US so there's health
insurance dental insurance and
retirement so Miguel decides to save $25
per month to put inside his retirement
fund but Jasmine just goes like eh
future Jasmine problem so Miguel kept on
contributing $25 to his retirement
account per month while Jasmine
contributed zero now 10 years has passed
and really Miguel has mostly forgotten
about the $25 that he's been
contributing because it's just been
directly being taken out of his paycheck
but Jasmine at this point goes like hm I
should probably think about retirement
so she starts contributing as well but
since she's has more disposable income
now she's decided to put in $50 per
month so double the amount Miguel puts
in then another 30 years passes lots of
things happen and finally Miguel and
Jasmine also decide that they are going
to retire now let's take a look at their
retirement accounts guess who has more
money well if you guess Jasmine you are
incorrect that would be Miguel Miguel
has
$168,000 while Jasmine only has
$147,000 so even though Miguel only
contributed $25 and never increased his
contribution Miguel contributed $25 for
40 years while Jasmine contributed $ for
the first 10 years and then $50 for the
next 30 Years so even though Jasmine
contributed twice the amount of that
Miguel did and for 30 years she still
ended up with less and that is thanks to
what is considered the eighth wonder of
the world compound interest so even
though Miguel was contributing less
money his money was working for him all
of those 10 years and it kept on
compounding on top of each other so even
though Miguel contributed less overall
that first 10 years really started
adding up and before he even knew it he
had increased his nest egg significantly
this is the reason why people keep
saying that you should invest early even
if it's just a few dollars that number
will keep adding on to itself the
general idea is that the earlier it is
that you start saving the better it is
remember the 20% we talked about in the
budgeting section the 20% were you're
allocating into savings let's now talk
about more in detail what you should be
doing with those savings so first let's
make a distinction between saving and
investing these are two terms that get
confused a lot I mean even on our budget
sheet which is called the entire things
savings right but they're actually
different saving means storing your
money safely having easy access to it
and having very low risk potentially
hopefully growing it a little bit over
time as well but mostly just not losing
money is called saving and these savings
are useful for your emergency fund in
case there's emergencies and also for
short-term goals remember those smart
goals we talked about the short-term
smart goles now technically you can save
your money by just stuffing it under
your mattress and hiding it in your
closet but it's generally not that great
because it is not convenient to you
somebody could just steal all of it
there's a lot of Cashers just lying
around it gets very very confusing and
you have absolutely zero growth on that
money assuming you don't lose it
yourself people generally save their
money by putting in a bank in a bank
account it can be like a regular bank
account or there are types of special
savings accounts where if you put a
certain amount of money for a certain
period of time you're able to have
higher interest rates for it in the US
this is called a certificate of deposit
it's called other things in other places
but the concept should be in your
country as well on the other hand
investing is the idea of putting money
with the intention for the money to grow
over time this is when you put money
into assets like stocks or bonds or
mutual funds by investing you're
accepting higher risk with the hope of
potentially having more Returns the
money itself is generally less liquid
like you can't take it out um as quickly
as you could from your SA savings
account and it's usually useful for
medium to longer term goals so I'm going
to talk more specifically about
investments in just a bit but first i'm
going to quickly walk through this
framework for how to think about your
savings and Investments which I think is
really helpful so number one is that you
need to create a budget so you're
tracking your income and you're taking
that 20% that you're going to be using
for savings and investment then the
first goal is a savings goal and that is
to establish an emergency fund you want
to save at least 3 to 6 months of your
living expenses in a bank account and
don't touch it unless you actually have
an emergency step three is to set clear
Financial smart goals for the short-term
medium-term and the longterm and you
want to decide whether saving or
investing is the best way to achieve
them remember for short-term goals
generally there are saving goals while
for medium and long-term goals you can
have portions of investment goals now
specifically for investment step number
four is to diversify your Investments
don't put your money into one type of
investment Instead try to spread them
out across different types of assets to
reduce your risk and step number five is
to review and to adjust check your
progress regularly and adjust it as
needed in order to make sure you're
achieving your financial goals I think
this five-step framework is super
helpful because there's just like so
many things that you're supposed to be
doing um but you know it's basically
telling you that these are your list of
priorities that you should be doing so
if you don't know what to do start with
that okay let's now talk about
Investments specifically there is a
relationship between risk and reward
generally the greater the risk of an
investment the greater the potential
reward is as well but also the PO
potential for loss a simple way of
categorizing different types of
Investments because there are so many
different types of Investments is into
three major categories the first one is
a low risk and a low return category
these are things like money markets
treasury bills and bonds I'm not going
to go into too much detail about what
exactly these types of Investments are
and the course itself also doesn't go
into too much detail about it but if
you're interested definitely look up
these specific terms but when we say low
risk low return these are things that
you will not get that much interest rate
for but these are just things that if
you invest in they're very safe
investment so the likelihood of you
losing your money is extremely low but
the amount of money that you get from
interest rate is also quite low the
second type is moderate risk and
moderate return these are things like
mutual funds and index funds and the
third type is high risk and high return
these are things that are risky and
volatile things like single stocks
cryptocurrencies and commodities so to
just kind of give you idea for what
these return percentages are looking
like I'm sure many of you have heard
about this suggestion people just tell
you like oh if you have like money set
decide for investment just invest in the
S&P 500 the S&P 500 is a stock market
index that tracks the largest 500 us
companies This falls into the category
of moderate risk and moderate return and
historically the S&P 500 have been
returning around 10% annually and
adjusted for inflation that's around 6
to 7% just to give you an idea of what
these numbers are looking like in any
case the general philosophy of investing
is that you need to understand the
amount of risk that you're taking and
the potential reward or loss that you
could be taking as well
and that you should always try to
diversify your assets do not keep your
eggs in one basket let me know if you
actually want me to do a speedrun of an
investment course specifically I'll be
down for that as well but just a word of
caution because I have made this mistake
before like several years ago I got
really interested in investment and that
in itself is like not a problem but what
was a problem was that I was very
interested in investing without actually
covering the foundations first which is
in budgeting and saving I thought that
was like boring but in reality that's
like trying to build a house while
having like a shitty foundation so if
you're interested in investing you
definitely should get your budgeting and
your saving and debt repayments if you
have any in order first okay let's
actually go back to Miguel and Jasmine
and talk about retirement so we saw from
the life of Miguel and Jasmine the magic
of compound interest which is especially
relevant when it comes to investing for
retirement because we're looking at 10
20 30 even 40 years that people have
before they retire so you have all that
time to take advantage of compound
interest there are actually special
retirement accounts in most countries
specifically to allow you to invest for
retirement in the US the ones that they
usually talk about is the 401K the IRA
and the Roth IRA the 41k is an employer
sponsored account which is set up by
your employer so both you and your
employer can contribute towards it some
employers would actually do 401K
matching like for example when I was
working at meta they did 7% 401K
matching up to like a certain limit
which is really really good so it's
essentially like free money that the
employer is putting into your retirement
account IRAs are considered individual
ual account so you're basically
operating that by yourself and of course
there's Social Security which is a
government program funded by payroll
taxes that generally is going to be like
really really small amount and who knows
if you can actually depend on that by
the time you actually retire wouldn't
really count on that one anyways I'm not
going to go into too much more detail
about these like very us specific things
but you can check out the details about
these accounts I think the cour does a
pretty good job of covering them and
I'll put the link in that for that unit
below for everybody else and this is me
included because I'm not American
there's huge gen some version of this um
for your home country as well you can go
to chat PT or whatever your favorite AI
is and just ask like what is the
equivalent of a 401k we're just like
what are the retirement accounts
available in my country all right time
for our next little assessment I'm going
to put on screen now some of these
questions that covered the past couple
of units remember if you can answer
these questions that means you actually
have retained that information now let's
go on to scams and frauds okay so I'm
going to spare you the massive list of
different scams and frauds that are
going on but I'm just going to leave you
with two general wisdoms when it comes
to scams and frauds the first one is
that if it's too good to be true then
it's too good to be true in Chinese we
actually have a saying that's
called that's a phrase that my mom likes
to use a lot as well but basically it's
just saying that the guy does not have
like these saring is is like this food
that drops for free like you know no
such thing as a free lunch right if it
sounds too good to be true then it's too
good to be true if someone goes like oh
you know if you invest in this thing
then I'm give you 50% return yeah no
they're not going to do that or a
Nigerian prince is going to like you
know give you the certain amount of
money if you wire that amount back
that's not going to happen either and I
actually did notice with the rise of AI
these scams have gotten a lot more
intelligent so even though like you know
Nigerian prince sounds so ridiculous
there are like very very like good scams
these days so just generally speaking if
you see something and you're like wow
that's a great opportunity definitely
just be careful of that and de second
General wisdom is to not give out
personal identifiable information or pii
things like your social security number
if you're American Social Insurance
Number if you're Canadian or whatever
the equivalent is to your country try
not to give people your birthday as much
as possible try to you know use
different passwords different types of
emails just like don't do things that
can expose you to more scams remember
stranger danger you know the things when
you say it like you meet everybody we're
all just like oh like I would totally
never get scammed because of something
like this but when reality like when
they're actually like doing these things
it it can be very very realistic like
scammers are very good at tapping into
the emotional part of your brain and it
makes you start doing things that are
completely irrational so please if you
feel like something could be potentially
off try to ask more questions about it
try not to do anything rash when it
comes to your money I guess that's a
general sentiment as well not just for
scams and frauds now with all that being
said though I do kind of want to make a
caveat and this is kind of like actually
a personal caveat it's actually not from
the course so not from K Academy um it's
the fact that you can also go the
opposite direction like for me I'm so
scared of getting scammed that I
essentially just like think everything
is a scam and I miss out on a lot of
opportunities you know because of that
and I think that also can be a problem
like when you hear so many horror
stories about scams that you just end up
not actually like making moves that
could potentially benefit you
financially so yeah just keep that in
mind as well there are scams but there's
also genuinely good opportuni out there
as well all right moving on to next
section I'm actually going to group
together the two sections the first one
is careers and education but I also want
to group in employment and the reason
why I'm doing this is because these
sections are not as indepth as the other
sections and also they're very very us
Centric so if you are American by all
means please do check out those sections
if you're interested in kind of a good
overview about things to think about
when you're thinking about school and
your career and employment but for this
video I'm going to talk about more
General Frameworks for how to think
about these things let's talk about
Education First specifically let's say
colleges and universities it is a really
really big investment to go off to
college whether that be like a 2-year
degree or a 4-year degree so before
making a decision like this it's very
important to understand the breakdown of
cost in relation to how much additional
Financial value that the degree can
bring you so return on investment the
sticker price of what university tells
you something cost is never actually the
true cost of going to that school a lot
of additional cost to tuition that
people don't fully consider would be
like the cost of books the cost of
materials like lab materials if you're
into Sciences art material if you're
into Arts many universities also have
these other like random little fees that
they just stick in there like mine
definitely did and I did not know that
until I actually saw you know the amount
of money additional money that I had to
pay other types of costs would include
transportation and living expenses if
you're going to be living near the
school and actually commuting to the
school so that would be Transportation
housing cost food costs and just
personal expenses if you need to move to
a city that's much more expensive than
where you're living right now then you
have to factor those into account as
well it is possible that attending a
university is actually cheaper than you
would expect too and that's through
something called financial aid I think
it's especially common in us-based
universities but there's a lot of like
grants and scholarships for people who
can't afford to go to school where
they're you know at a certain Merit
level then they would get these
scholarships of course there's also the
option of loans and I'm not going to go
into too much detail about this cuz
there's a lot of different types of
student loans available but generally
speaking it's just a very good idea to
actually go through these numbers and
actually calculate how much things cost
and what potential financial aid that
you could apply for um before choosing a
university that you're going to when it
comes to if you're getting a
post-graduate degree like a master's
degree or a PhD another consideration
you want to take into account is the
idea of opportunity cost so the amount
of money that you're going to be
spending on this degree in addition to
the cost that is associated directly
with that degree also includes you not
working during during that period of
time so all of that is called
opportunity costs all of that money that
you could potentially have earned if you
actually kept working at your job would
be gone so that's also something that
you need to be careful about considering
many people also fall into the Trap of
thinking that getting a master's degree
or a postgraduate degree would
definitely increase their salary
expectations afterwards and that is not
always the case so it's also very
important to evaluate that carefully too
anyways if you're looking to attend
school or go back to school it is
obviously a really really big decision
and it's something that you should very
carefully consider now the second from
the course which I thought was really
helpful for people who both want to go
to school also for people who are trying
to get a job is an actually very very
obvious thing it's to actually talk to
people like if you're thinking of going
to a university and getting a certain
degree and you're like oh like I'm not
sure if this is actually going to get me
to job that I want I don't know if it's
I'm going to learn the things that I
want to be learning then actually reach
out to people who have graduated from
that degree and same goes for a job if
you're like oh I'm not really sure if I
want to do this job not really sure what
that's going to be like then try to
actually reach out to people who have
done that job before seriously if you
just talk to someone who's actually been
through the experience that you're
trying to decide about it can
potentially save you a lot of money time
and headache okay now let's do a fun
exercise answer the question when was
the last time that you paid taxes a in
the last 24 hours B in the past week C
in the past month or D in the past year
I would hope the majority of you
probably should have chosen a in the
last 24 hours whether you have bought
anything in the last 24 hours you should
have picked eight and that is because of
sales tax which is the tax that you pay
every time that you purchase something
at least if you're in North America I
know that not all places have sales
taxes but my point being in doing this
little exercise is the fact that when
most people think about taxes they just
think about tax season like when they
have to pay taxes um every single year
when in fact you're actually paying
taxes all the time throughout the year
in a variety of different ways let me
just list out a few for you income tax
payroll tax sales tax property tax
corporate tax estate tax excise tax
hotel tax and toll tax so these taxes
generally fall into two different
categories the first one is called a
flat tax and a sales tax would be an
example of this it would just be like
every time you buy something or you go
to a restaurant and you eat something um
there would be like a certain percentage
at the end of your bill that's tacked
onto your bill and this is going to be
the same rate for everybody then there's
progressive tax an example of this would
be income tax higher earners would
generally pay a larger percentage of
their income some taxes are going to be
built into the prices itself and there's
nothing you can do about it while for
others like income tax or property tax
you can calculate and sometimes there
are ways that you can actually reduce
that tax so generally speaking if you're
a single person you're an employee
working a full-time job um and you don't
own any properties then you would have
like the simplest tax forms and a
simplest tax process you would just fill
out some forms in the beginning of your
employment and usually the tax is
deducted directly from your paycheck so
you don't actually even get to see that
money it gets directly paid to the
government now it gets a little bit more
complex say if you're a contractor and
you're working for yourself then you're
taxed at different rates and you're
responsible for reporting your taxes and
paying your taxes yourself as well and
if you own things like properties then
that's like a whole set of other types
of tax that you would be paying other
thing to know is that there's things
called deductibles so if there are
certain things that don't count towards
your taxes so you don't get taxed on
those specific things there's also
something called a tax credit and this
can be used to reduce the amount of tax
that you have the rest of this unit goes
into detail about us-based specific tax
forms how to fill them out what they
mean and all these things so definitely
check them out if you're interested but
I'm not going to cover them here just
because we have a pretty Global audience
let's now talk about Banks the way that
a bank makes money is that when you
deposit money into a bank you'll receive
a little bit of interest for the money
in your bank but they'll actually take
that money and lend it out to other
people and charge a much higher interest
rate for it and the bank gets to keep
the difference in interest rate Banks
pretty much all work in a very similar
way but there are many different types
of banks so first you have your very big
National or even Global Banks places
like JP Morgan Chase Bank of America
America City Bank generally speaking
these banks are full service Banks so
they'll do lots of different things for
you but you wouldn't make the most money
in terms of interest rates when you're
banking with a larger bank then you have
your Regional Bank so they're smaller
they're more specific to where it is
that you live you can probably get
better interest rates when you bank with
them and they may have specific perks
and offerings that would be especially
useful for you you also have credit
unions where you can also deposit money
and take out loans but these are
generally nonprofit and based on
membership so you actually have to be a
member to be to do stuff with a credit
union if you bank with a credit union
your interest rate is generally going to
be higher but they do have more limited
services and finally there is online
banks so these are banks that don't have
physical locations although sometimes
they would partner with bigger Banks so
that you can use um different ATMs that
are around so because the bank itself
needs less money in order to operate
since it doesn't have any physical
locations generally if you bank with
them you would also get a much higher
interest rate for your money although it
is also true that some of these online
banks can be a little bit more risky um
because you know they're just online
people doing online things so when
you're choosing a bank with a bank
people generally start off with a
regional bank or a national or global
bank just because you know there's more
services that are being offered and it's
generally considered to be more secure
but if you want something with better
rates and a more personal touch you
could consider a credit union and
finally if you're comfortable with
online things and if you want lower fees
and higher interest rates you can try an
online bank now let's talk about
different bank accounts so within a
single bank there's usually different
options for bank accounts so these terms
might be a little us-centric but based
upon where you are there's probably an
equivalent of this so the have your
checking account which is kind of like
your everyday account has very low
interest rates or no interest rates and
you're essentially just using it just a
place to store your money as opposed to
hiding cash and hoarding cash in your
house there are money market accounts
which has slightly higher interest rates
um but you know they may have some
things like you can't withdraw under
certain limits you have to keep a
certain amount of money within that bank
account or you can only do withdrawals
like five times a month similarly is
savings accounts it also has a little
bit higher interest rate but more
restrictions then there are certific
ific Ates of deposit where CDs uh in
Canada where I do a lot of my banking
these are called gic's and this is kind
of like the highest level of saving
before you start going to investment
territory because you're essentially
going to take that money and lock it up
for like 6 months one year or 2 year and
in exchange for this the bank will give
you a much higher interest rate for it
and the reason why the bank is willing
to do this is because if you're
basically like saying I'm not going to
take this money out then the bank is
able to take that money and Loan it out
to people knowing the fact that you're
not going to want it back of course the
downside is if you actually do have to
like touch that money and take it out
you'll have to pay a very significant
penalty for it and finally you have
investment accounts so investment
accounts is also kind of a category in
itself there are a lot of different
investment accounts there stock accounts
you have your special investment
retirement accounts like your forks or
your IRAs you could also have like
normal brokerage accounts where you can
buy things like stocks and funds and
things like that most people generally
don't have just the single type of bank
account usually at least you would have
like a checking account for just moving
money around some form of savings
accounts um to get a little bit of
interest rate and then potentially also
at least one type of investment account
to be doing investing stuff okay so now
let's actually revisit the idea of
interest rates specifically in
relationship to bank accounts I
mentioned interest rate for some of the
accounts that I just talked about
earlier but let's specifically talk
about the accounts that has compound
interest built into it remember the
story Miguel and Jasmine Miguel
contributed less money but he actually
had more money at the end of retirement
and that is because of the magic of
compound interest luckily some accounts
have compound interest built
specifically into it for savings
accounts these would be regular saving
accounts and CDs retirement accounts
like 401ks and Ras and also most
brokerage accounts which are accounts in
which you're investing stocks bonds or
mutual funds so any money that you earn
from that investment can actually be
reinvested so you can let compound
interest do its magic so if you're
looking to take advantage of compound
interest then you should be looking into
these types of accounts the last thing I
want to talk about in this section is
inflation inflation refers to the idea
that the prices of things that we buy
are generally going up over time so your
money actually is worth less over time
so if you ever hear in the news that
inflation is 3% or 6% this is basically
saying that things are getting on
average 3% more expensive or 6% more
expensive it's very important to keep
track of inflation because it is a force
that will continue to make your money
worth less that's why if you actually do
nothing with your money you're actually
slowly losing money over time and even
when you're investing money sometimes
you know somebody would tell you oh like
the interest rate for these Investments
where you know putting it into your
savings account is like 2% right you're
like oh wow like I could make 2% but say
like your inflation raise 3% you're
actually still losing money you're just
losing it at a slower rate at only 1% as
opposed to 3% so yeah always keep that
in mind whenever you're planning for the
future inflation is one of those things
that will sneak up on you all right we
are almost done only two units left and
actually Unit 13 which is car buying you
know going through that unit the thing
that I B basically got out of it was
that people would try to scam you a lot
they would do a lot of trickeries to try
to scam you uh and then the course does
like list out like a few different types
of trickeries that they will do on you
to try to scam you but I feel like
unless you're actually actively buying a
car it's not super useful to you so if
you are check it out but for everybody
else I am not going to take up more of
your time um because this is already
like a very long video so let's just end
on the housing unit so the first part of
this unit talks about whether you should
rent or whether you should buy and the
instructor s goes through a pretty good
example so I'm going to share that with
you guys now so imagine that you want to
buy a house that is listed for
$400,000 you have $100,000 which will'll
put as a down payment which leaves
$300,000 which you're going to take as a
loan so just for Simplicity sake let's
say that you take out a loan that is
simply a 6% interest rate per year this
means that you need to pay $188,000 a
year now assume that you also make
$100,000 in income so in the US your
interest rate the mortgage that your
paying is actually deductible this does
not mean that you can just subtract
$188,000 from the amount of taxes that
you're paying that would be great but
that would be called a tax credit it
means that instead of having to pay
taxes on $100,000 of your earnings
because you're spending $188,000 to pay
back for the loan you only get tax on
$82,000 so very approximately a third
where $6,000 will be considered reduced
taxes which means that the effective
cost that you're paying for interest for
your mortgage is $122,000 so unfort
fortunately the cost associated with
buying a house is not just the mortgage
there's also additional things like
property tax let's say for example here
that property tax is $4,000 which is 1%
of the value of your property and say
that you have to spend another $2,000
just to upkeep your property and like do
some Renovations or something like that
which means that in the end the amount
of money that you're paying for the
house in terms of buying is $118,000 so
now let's consider renting say you have
that same place right and the rent for
it is $11,500 per month this means that
it also works out to be $188,000 a year
if you actually rent the house but
that's not it all things consider equal
if you still had $100,000 and you did
not put it into a down payment for
buying a house it means that you could
have invested it somewhere else and
let's just say that we're going to be
very conservative and your Investments
only yield like 2% maybe you just stuck
it into a savings account and you only
got 2% out of it this means that you
earned another $2,000 so effectively
decreasing the $18,000 per year to
16,000 per year if choose to rent so in
this example using you know these
specific numbers it turns out that it
would be better for you to actually rent
the house um as opposed to buying this
house however of course this is like a
very simplistic example and there's also
a lot of other factors to consider as
well like maybe the fact that
psychologically speaking you just want
to have a house right like maybe you
want to have a place to yourself you
don't want to keep moving around
whenever your lease is over there are a
lot of other factors at play as well but
I do think this is a really nice little
framework um in terms of trying to
understand whether you should be renting
versus buying I think people in our
generation might just believe that
buying is always better than renting
because from our parents generation that
usually was always the case but
unfortunately it's not always the case
anymore so if you are deciding whether
you should rent or buy try to kind of do
this little exercise first count economy
also has a nice little mortgage
calculator which I will link in the
description if you're based in the US
then that will be helpful for you as
well okay we are at the end of of this
video oh my gosh this is such a long
video actually took me two days to to
film the whole thing truthfully I don't
think I was able to cover like
everything about this course so I tried
my best to kind of go through these
foundations and give you the big ideas
of them so that if you are interested in
any specific section you can actually go
to that course and Con Academy course is
all completely free and to do that
section um by yourself but hopefully
this at least gives you an idea of what
you don't know cuz if you know what you
don't know then you can look up the
things that you don't know thank the
very difficult thing about financial
literacy is often times we don't know
what we don't know anyways I'm going to
stop laughing so as promised here is an
assessment that covers these sections
please write your answers in the
comments if you're interested in
self-learning stem subjects I really
recommend that you check out brilliant
brilliand is a stem learning platform
that specializes in interactive Hands-On
learning when I was interviewing for
meta and it was actually meta that
recommended to me that I should use
brilliant to brush up on my math and
stats before the interviews and that's
because it's just so effective at
teaching stem subjects through
Interactive problem-based Learning
brilliant incorporates like little
quizzes analogies and just like little
dopamine hits that help a lot when
you're feeling bored or discouraged
which I feel like for stem subjects it
is pretty easy to feel bored and or
discouraged if you're interested in gen
they have a short and sweet little
course that is a really fun overview and
it actually doesn't involve any coding
they also have Timeless offerings like
math and stats programming with python
as well as new course offerings with
topics like neuron networks and Quantum
Computing you can join a millions of
people already learning on brilliant by
going to this link over here also linked
in description or by just scanning the
QR code on screen if you go through my
link you'll get a 20% off the annual
membership by the way if you celebrate
Christmas this is also a pretty good
Christmas present for people who are
like slightly nerdy like I would
appreciate it thank you all so much for
watching and I will see you guys in next
video we live stream